---
play_number: 1
title: Understand what people need
---

We must begin digital projects by exploring and pinpointing the needs of the people who will use the product or service, and the ways the it will fit into their research experience. Whether the users are students, faculty, librarians or library staff or library partners, library project teams must include real people (stakeholders and end users) in their design process from the beginning. The needs of people, not constraints of the library systems, policy or information silos, should inform product and service design and development decisions. We need to continually test the products we build and the services they support with real people to keep us honest about what is important.



### Checklist
1. Early in the project, spend time with current and prospective users of the service
2. Use a range of qualitative and quantitative research methods to determine people’s goals, needs, and behaviors; be thoughtful about the time spent
3. Test prototypes of solutions with real people, in the field if possible
4. Document the findings about user goals, needs, behaviors, and preferences
5. Share findings with the team and agency leadership
6. Create a prioritized list of tasks the user is trying to accomplish, also known as "user stories"
7. As the digital service is being built, regularly test it with potential users to ensure it meets people’s needs

### Key Questions
- Who are your primary users?
- What user needs will this service address?
- Why does the user want or need this service?
- What comparative services do our users use 
- Which people will have the most difficulty with the service?
- How will we provide accessible content and services?
- Which research methods were used?
- What were the key findings?
- How were the findings documented? Where can future team members access the documentation?
- How often are you testing with real people?
